[Bodhi Chata]
Okay, so this morning I'm going to talk about bodhichitta.
As you all know, this month is a very special month according to the Tibetan Buddhist Calendar.
When the great teacher Bodhisattvatmani reached enlightenment,
he continued to earn the will of Dharma that brings joy and peace, harmony, and equality to all the
living beings.
But then in the middle of his life, with the consequences of many different other kinds of
situations,
then the Buddha did these miracle activities.
This is not just that he wants to do these miracle activities,
but the circumstances and consequences brought up, that is in a way pushed to do these miracle
activities.
And that must be also all, it's just kind of dynamic displays that happen, then happening,
in order to glorify the magnificent and beautiful, the peaceful, authentic gauntlet of the Buddha,
then he did demonstrate these miracle activities with the, in a way, different contexts.
So then, this is known as miracle activities. Buddha performed these miracle activities from day
one of the lunar calendar,
about 15 days ago, and he continued to perform these until today.
Today is the according calendar, or the Buddhist account is the final days of that beautiful
display that Buddha performed.
In that time, so many gathered, so many purposes gathered, the devotees gathered, the choristers
gathered,
and all just a general kind of interesting person gathered.
Over hundreds and hundreds of thousands came in the shavastha and then displayed.
So, today is ever since in the Buddhist, in the very Buddhism, considering this one of the very
special month,
that brings a lot of good energy, of the positive energy, virtuous energy.
And there's a kind of big currents moving in the time zone, that very beautiful spiritual energy.
Every kind of ride on that, in a way, this is what's called a big kind of surfing days.
Every ride on that surfing boat, we really can, kind of, erecting or evaluating beautiful energy
and beautiful realization.
And therefore, it is also known as a multiplying month.
And one, very truly activities transformed and multiplied over a hundred thousand times.
That's what the teaching said. So, this is very special day.
I'm not very so happy that you're all able to come and participate through this beautiful days and
times.
We're all together. And so, thank you very much for organizing and making this time.
And just thank everything. Thank you very much.
And so, therefore, again, we thought to do a little bit about as still also ask of Mary,
to ask to do a little bit of both each other.
And then, I also thought to give some transmissions of this.
Many of you already have those transmissions.
But, again, it's just a reminding of our practice and our meditation,
reconnecting by and deepening our practices.
So, I thought to an honor of the lineage and all the practitioners.
I thought to do these transmissions.
And then, after that, we do a short practice and the celebration of the wedding
and priest with honor of the Buddha's activities.
So, those are the, kind of, what we thought to do.
So, now, we've talked about the both each other.
And, of course, many of you, I mean, you all know the both each other, both each other.
And both each other is generally the foundation and the center column of the Buddha's teaching.
And, therefore, I mean, entirely Buddha's teaching.
Eighty-four thousand different teachings or nayana teachings,
all like three basket teachings, all three turning the wheel of Dharma.
Everything is really best on this both each other.
There is nothing else Buddha spoke besides both each other's teachings that way, all the way.
And both each other, what is both each other?
It's nature. Nature teaches.
Nature of ourself, nature of others.
And our brain, the harmonizing, how beautiful ourself and others,
and that is really the teaching of both each other.
And we all know, we are in samsara, as we call it samsara.
Samsara has a lot of bumpy situations, a lot of challenges.
Bumpy goes up and down, and there are so many challenges, difficulties,
unpleasant things come up because all this is a leg of contracting to the natural
and a leg of also both each other, understanding.
And that's why all these troubles and difficulties, bumpy situations arise.
Therefore, both each other is just so special and just so beautiful
because it's touching to the core of our nature and our beauty and the beauties of others.
And we begin this value and importance of everything.
In the Vedayana teaching, often teaching tells everything is a purity status.
But also, if we have the true love and compassion to everyone,
that is the key to open the door of everything is a purity status.
Nothing is unpleasant, nothing is impure.
When you have love and compassion, you see everything is so beautiful, so special.
And that is both each other.
Both each other, of course, I think you all know, but again, is reminded to each other, us.
It's both each other, it's love, both each other is compassion, and both each other is wisdom.
Vastra, this three beautiful components of the nature of the mind is known as both each other.
In fact, there is no enlightenment, no Buddhahood beside this both each other.
Therefore, the greatest teacher, Gaurabh and Masambhav mentioned these three.
Love and compassion, Vastra, are the mind of the Buddha.
This is the mind of the Buddha.
One we are with the authentic true love.
We are with the mind of the Buddha.
One we are authentically with the mind with compassion.
We are in that moment with the Buddha mind status.
Then similarly, wisdom.
So there is no Buddhahood or no enlightenment besides
loving kindness and compassion and a wisdom that has no discrimination.
This is what is so important and so special.
It is our own nature of the mind.
It's not outside. Love is, as we all know, love is not going to come outside.
And compassion is not going to come outside.
And all the wisdom has to be revealed within ourselves.
External will support, help, condition, their condition.
They can't really re-glorify those qualities.
But true love, true compassion and wisdom that merge from the mind.
When we extend that light of love and compassion from our heart and mind,
we feel the power of love and compassion to ourselves.
Also others will feel that too.
Therefore, this bodhicitta is just the foundation, center column,
and the embodiment teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
And as well as practice of the Buddha and Gopin Masambha,
all those great lineage masters, all those great practitioners
who practice this bodhicitta and reach higher realization
and discover this, become the Buddha.
With all the bodhicitta, there is no enlightenment.
And no happiness, no joy and no peace.
And therefore, this bodhicitta is just really very, very special
and very, very crucial.
We like to bring peace, happiness to ourselves.
And also we like to bring happy and joy, peace to other beings.
Therefore, this bodhicitta is very, very, very special and very important.
Thank you.